content/posts/2021-04-27-homeoffice-lunch-quickwin.markdown, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Home office recipe: Ciabatta with italian veggies"
date: 2021-04-27 01:00:00
---

I hate recipes that start with the life story of the author, to let me get this over with - and I promise to keep it short. Since we're all stuck at home for more than a year, I'm sure you can relate: Every day with lunch time coming closer, the looming question arises: What should I/we eat? I'll share a quick recipe with you that doesn't require much preparation time.

Coming from companies where we had chefs to prepare food, it took some getting used to the new situation but over the past year we've gotten pretty good at having lunch ready between 12:00/13:00 and the topic hasn't become much of an issue. Sometimes we opt for ordering take-out/food delivery but we try to keep it at around 2 times per week.

I love recipes that don't make me think so I can listen to music or podcasts while cooking. Let me know if you this recipe made you think at some point, I'd consider that a bug. If you want more recipes, reach out, perhaps I'll be motivated to publish more of them.

# Recipe: 

## Ciabatta with italian veggies 

![picture of a ciabatta bread with veggies](images/ciabatta.jpg)

## What you need: 
* ciabatta bread (I recommend a long one)
* 2 paprikas
* 1 red onion
* 1 zuccini
* italian spices
* olive oil
* other spices (pepper, salt, whatever brings you joy)

## Get started

* pre-heat your oven to 200C (should take ~10 minutes)
* cut the ciabatta in half (if you went for a long one)
* slice up the ciabatta so you can put your veggies on it later
* pour olive oil over the top of the ciabatta
* prepare baking paper, put it on a grating, add the ciabatta for later
* slice your veggies into strips of about 5cm length
* heat up oil in your pan
* add the ingredients you just cut
* let it cook for 10 minutes under a lid, mix it up
* put your ciabatta in the oven (should take ~10 minutes)
* add some italian spices, pepper & salt and mix it up
* the veggies are ready as soon they are soft and glassy
* make sure your spices are spread evenly
* take the ciabatta out of the oven, open up the ciabatta, put the veggies on it
* enjoy

Commit message:

Fix image link, add skip to recipe link

content/posts/2021-04-27-homeoffice-lunch-quickwin.markdown, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Home office recipe: Ciabatta with italian veggies"
date: 2021-04-27 01:00:00
---

I hate recipes that start with the life story of the author, so feel free to skip to the [recipe](#Recipe). Since we're all stuck at home for more than a year, I'm sure you can relate: Every day with lunch time coming closer, the looming question arises: What should I/we eat? I'll share a quick recipe with you that doesn't require much preparation time.

Coming from companies where we had chefs to prepare food, it took some getting used to the new situation but over the past year we've gotten pretty good at having lunch ready between 12:00/13:00 and the topic hasn't become much of an issue. Sometimes we opt for ordering take-out/food delivery but we try to keep it at around 2 times per week.

I love recipes that don't make me think so I can listen to music or podcasts while cooking. Let me know if you this recipe made you think at some point, I'd consider that a bug. If you want more recipes, reach out, perhaps I'll be motivated to write down and publish more of them.

# Recipe

## Ciabatta with italian veggies 

![picture of a ciabatta bread with veggies](/ciabatta.jpg)

## What you need: 
* ciabatta bread (I recommend a long one)
* 2 paprikas
* 1 red onion
* 1 zuccini
* italian spices
* olive oil
* other spices (pepper, salt, whatever brings you joy)

## Get started

* pre-heat your oven to 200C (should take ~10 minutes)
* cut the ciabatta in half (if you went for a long one)
* slice up the ciabatta so you can put your veggies on it later
* pour olive oil over the top of the ciabatta
* prepare baking paper, put it on a grating, add the ciabatta for later
* slice your veggies into strips of about 5cm length
* heat up oil in your pan
* add the ingredients you just cut
* let it cook for 10 minutes under a lid, mix it up
* put your ciabatta in the oven (should take ~10 minutes)
* add some italian spices, pepper & salt and mix it up
* the veggies are ready as soon they are soft and glassy
* make sure your spices are spread evenly
* take the ciabatta out of the oven, open up the ciabatta, put the veggies on it
* enjoy
